CONTRIBUTING-DOCUMENTATION.adoc, before:

= How to contribute to the reference

The Spring Framework reference now uses http://asciidoctor.org/[asciidoctor]. This document describes how to contribute documentation updates.

== Building with Gradle

You can build the documentation using gradle using the `reference` task. For example, from the project root execute the following command:

  ./gradlew reference

the output will be available at `spring-framework/build/reference/htmlsingle/index.html`

== Live editing

One of the nice features about using asciidoctor is the support for live editing.

You will find a Guardfile already present at `spring-framework/src/asciidoc/Guardfile`. Make sure first to follow
the setup instructions within the http://asciidoctor.org/docs/editing-asciidoc-with-live-preview/[Editing AsciiDoc with Live Preview]
document. Once you have done that, there are additional gems to install to make it work (assuming that you are using
http://livereload.com/[LiveReload]):

  gem install guard-rspec guard-livereload

When running `guard start` within the `src/asciidoc/` folder, any changes to the `src/asciidoc/index.adoc` file will automatically be written at `src/asciidoc/build/index.html`.

== Troubleshooting

* If you are using LiveReload, make sure to select _Allow access to file URLs_ in the LiveEdit plugin options of
  your browser.
* The icon used to enable _LiveReload_ can be a bit confusing. The dot is empty when it is disabled and full when
  the plugin is active. Make sure to enable it on the tab displaying the `index.html` file.
* Ensure you are _not_ running guard start at all as two instances could not run at the same time. To exit a current
  session in a clean way, just type e in the shell.

== Documentation notes

Some notes on documentation

* It is important to keep whitespaces to a minimum to make it simple to edit files. This means use an editor with line wrapping rather than manually inserting hard returns.
* http://asciidoctor.org/docs/asciidoc-syntax-quick-reference/[Asciidoctor Quick Reference]
* http://asciidoctor.org/docs/user-manual/[Asciidoctor Manual]
* http://asciidoctor.org/docs/asciidoc-writers-guide/[Asciidoctor Writers Guide]

Commit message:

Hard-wrap CONTRIBUTING-DOCUMENTATION at 90 chars

CONTRIBUTING-DOCUMENTATION.adoc, after:

= How to contribute to the reference

The Spring Framework reference now uses http://asciidoctor.org/[asciidoctor]. This
document describes how to contribute documentation updates.

== Building with Gradle

You can build the documentation using gradle using the `reference` task. For example, from
the project root execute the following command:

	./gradlew reference

the output will be available at `spring-framework/build/reference/htmlsingle/index.html`

== Live editing

One of the nice features about using asciidoctor is the support for live editing.

You will find a Guardfile already present at `spring-framework/src/asciidoc/Guardfile`.
Make sure first to follow the setup instructions within the
http://asciidoctor.org/docs/editing-asciidoc-with-live-preview/[Editing AsciiDoc with Live Preview]
document. Once you have done that, there are additional gems to install to make it work
(assuming that you are using http://livereload.com/[LiveReload]):

	gem install guard-rspec guard-livereload

When running `guard start` within the `src/asciidoc/` folder, any changes to the
`src/asciidoc/index.adoc` file will automatically be written at
`src/asciidoc/build/index.html`.

== Troubleshooting

* If you are using LiveReload, make sure to select _Allow access to file URLs_ in the
  LiveEdit plugin options of your browser.
* The icon used to enable _LiveReload_ can be a bit confusing. The dot is empty when it is
  disabled and full when the plugin is active. Make sure to enable it on the tab
  displaying the `index.html` file.
* Ensure you are _not_ running guard start at all as two instances could not run at the
  same time. To exit a current session in a clean way, just type e in the shell.

== Documentation notes

Some notes on documentation

* Documentation is wrapped at 90 chars, ensure that you manually wrap your edits
* Tabs are used for indentation, do not use spaces
* Follow the existing style when inserting `source` blocks
* http://asciidoctor.org/docs/asciidoc-syntax-quick-reference/[Asciidoctor Quick Reference]
* http://asciidoctor.org/docs/user-manual/[Asciidoctor Manual]
* http://asciidoctor.org/docs/asciidoc-writers-guide/[Asciidoctor Writers Guide]
