import-into-idea.md, before:

The following has been tested against Intellij IDEA 11.0.1

## Steps

_Within your locally cloned spring-framework working directory:_

1. Generate IDEA metadata with `./gradlew cleanIdea idea`
2. Import into IDEA as usual
3. Set the Project JDK as appropriate
4. Add git support
5. Code away

## Known issues

1. MockServletContext and friends will fail to compile in spring-web. To fix this, uncheck the 'export' setting for all servlet-api and tomcat-servlet-api jars. The problem is that spring-web needs Servlet 2.5, but it's picking up Servlet 3.0 from projects that it depends on.
2. spring-context will fail to build because there's a duplicate instance of GroovyMessenger in spring-context/src/test/java/org/springframework/scripting/groovy/Messenger.groovy. The solution to this is not known.  It's not a problem on Eclipse, because Eclipse doesn't automatically compile .groovy files like IDEA (apparently) does.

There are no other known problems at this time.  Please add to this list, and if you're ambitious, consider playing with the Gradle IDEA generation DSL to fix these problems automatically, e.g.:

* http://gradle.org/docs/current/dsl/org.gradle.plugins.ide.idea.model.IdeaProject.html
* http://gradle.org/docs/current/dsl/org.gradle.plugins.ide.idea.model.IdeaModule.html
* http://gradle.org/docs/current/groovydoc/org/gradle/plugins/ide/idea/model/IdeaModule.html

## Tips

In any case, please do not check in your own generated .iml, .ipr, or .iws files. You'll notice these files are already intentionally in .gitignore. The same policy goes for eclipse metadata.

## FAQ

Q. What about IDEA's own [Gradle support](http://confluence.jetbrains.net/display/IDEADEV/Gradle+integration)?

A. Unknown. Please report back if you try it and it goes well for you.

Commit message:

Various updates to support IDEA
Remove the 'final' modifier from SingletonBeanFactoryLocatorTests
to work around the "cannot extend final class" error issued when
running all tests. The error was due to confusion with IDEA between
the two variants of SingletonBeanFactoryLocatorTests across
spring-context and spring-beans.

Rename one of the GroovyMessenger classes to GroovyMessenger2.
Previously there were multiple Groovy classes named
'GroovyMessenger', causing a compilation error in certain IDE
arrangements.

Update import-into-idea.md documentation

Add various IDEA artifacts to .gitignore
 - ignore derby.log wherever it is written
 - ignore IDEA's test-output directory
 - ignore IDEA's Atlassian connector config file

import-into-idea.md, after:

The following has been tested against Intellij IDEA 12.0

## Steps

_Within your locally cloned spring-framework working directory:_

1. Generate IDEA metadata with `./gradlew :spring-oxm:compileTestJava cleanIdea idea`
2. Import into IDEA as usual
3. Set the Project JDK as appropriate
4. Add git support
5. Code away

## Known issues

1. `spring-aspects` does not compile out of the box due to references to aspect types unknown to IDEA.
See http://youtrack.jetbrains.com/issue/IDEA-64446 for details. In the meantime, you may want to
exclude `spring-aspects` from the overall project to avoid compilation errors.
2. While all JUnit tests pass from the command line with Gradle, many will fail when run from IDEA.
Resolving this is a work in progress. If attempting to run all JUnit tests from within IDEA, you will
likely need to set the following VM options to avoid out of memory errors:
    -XX:MaxPermSize=2048m -Xmx2048m -XX:MaxHeapSize=2048m

## Tips

In any case, please do not check in your own generated .iml, .ipr, or .iws files.
You'll notice these files are already intentionally in .gitignore. The same policy goes for eclipse metadata.

## FAQ

Q. What about IDEA's own [Gradle support](http://confluence.jetbrains.net/display/IDEADEV/Gradle+integration)?

A. Keep an eye on http://youtrack.jetbrains.com/issue/IDEA-53476
