[[testcontext-executing-sql]]
= Executing SQL Scripts

When writing integration tests against a relational database, it is often beneficial to
run SQL scripts to modify the database schema or insert test data into tables. The
`spring-jdbc` module provides support for _initializing_ an embedded or existing database
by executing SQL scripts when the Spring `ApplicationContext` is loaded. See
xref:data-access/jdbc/embedded-database-support.adoc[Embedded database support] and
xref:data-access/jdbc/embedded-database-support.adoc#jdbc-embedded-database-dao-testing[Testing data access logic with an embedded database]
 for details.

Although it is very useful to initialize a database for testing _once_ when the
`ApplicationContext` is loaded, sometimes it is essential to be able to modify the
database _during_ integration tests. The following sections explain how to run SQL
scripts programmatically and declaratively during integration tests.

[[testcontext-executing-sql-programmatically]]
== Executing SQL scripts programmatically

Spring provides the following options for executing SQL scripts programmatically within
integration test methods.

* `org.springframework.jdbc.datasource.init.ScriptUtils`
* `org.springframework.jdbc.datasource.init.ResourceDatabasePopulator`
* `org.springframework.test.context.junit4.AbstractTransactionalJUnit4SpringContextTests`
* `org.springframework.test.context.testng.AbstractTransactionalTestNGSpringContextTests`

`ScriptUtils` provides a collection of static utility methods for working with SQL
scripts and is mainly intended for internal use within the framework. However, if you
require full control over how SQL scripts are parsed and run, `ScriptUtils` may suit
your needs better than some of the other alternatives described later. See the
{spring-framework-api}/jdbc/datasource/init/ScriptUtils.html[javadoc] for individual
methods in `ScriptUtils` for further details.

`ResourceDatabasePopulator` provides an object-based API for programmatically populating,
initializing, or cleaning up a database by using SQL scripts defined in external
resources. `ResourceDatabasePopulator` provides options for configuring the character
encoding, statement separator, comment delimiters, and error handling flags used when
parsing and running the scripts. Each of the configuration options has a reasonable
default value. See the
{spring-framework-api}/jdbc/datasource/init/ResourceDatabasePopulator.html[javadoc] for
details on default values. To run the scripts configured in a
`ResourceDatabasePopulator`, you can invoke either the `populate(Connection)` method to
run the populator against a `java.sql.Connection` or the `execute(DataSource)` method
to run the populator against a `javax.sql.DataSource`. The following example
specifies SQL scripts for a test schema and test data, sets the statement separator to
`@@`, and run the scripts against a `DataSource`:

[tabs]
======
Java::
+
[source,java,indent=0,subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
	@Test
	void databaseTest() {
		ResourceDatabasePopulator populator = new ResourceDatabasePopulator();
		populator.addScripts(
				new ClassPathResource("test-schema.sql"),
				new ClassPathResource("test-data.sql"));
		populator.setSeparator("@@");
		populator.execute(this.dataSource);
		// run code that uses the test schema and data
	}
----

Kotlin::
+
[source,kotlin,indent=0,subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
	@Test
	fun databaseTest() {
		val populator = ResourceDatabasePopulator()
		populator.addScripts(
				ClassPathResource("test-schema.sql"),
				ClassPathResource("test-data.sql"))
		populator.setSeparator("@@")
		populator.execute(dataSource)
		// run code that uses the test schema and data
	}
----
======

Note that `ResourceDatabasePopulator` internally delegates to `ScriptUtils` for parsing
and running SQL scripts. Similarly, the `executeSqlScript(..)` methods in
xref:testing/testcontext-framework/support-classes.adoc#testcontext-support-classes-junit4[`AbstractTransactionalJUnit4SpringContextTests`]
and xref:testing/testcontext-framework/support-classes.adoc#testcontext-support-classes-testng[`AbstractTransactionalTestNGSpringContextTests`]
internally use a `ResourceDatabasePopulator` to run SQL scripts. See the Javadoc for the
various `executeSqlScript(..)` methods for further details.

[[testcontext-executing-sql-declaratively]]
== Executing SQL scripts declaratively with @Sql

In addition to the aforementioned mechanisms for running SQL scripts programmatically,
you can declaratively configure SQL scripts in the Spring TestContext Framework.
Specifically, you can declare the `@Sql` annotation on a test class or test method to
configure individual SQL statements or the resource paths to SQL scripts that should be
run against a given database before or after an integration test class or test method.
Support for `@Sql` is provided by the `SqlScriptsTestExecutionListener`, which is enabled
by default.

[NOTE]
====
Method-level `@Sql` declarations override class-level declarations by default, but this
behavior may be configured per test class or per test method via `@SqlMergeMode`. See
xref:testing/testcontext-framework/executing-sql.adoc#testcontext-executing-sql-declaratively-script-merging[Merging and Overriding Configuration with `@SqlMergeMode`]
for further details.

However, this does not apply to class-level declarations configured for the
`BEFORE_TEST_CLASS` or `AFTER_TEST_CLASS` execution phases. Such declarations cannot be
overridden, and the corresponding scripts and statements will be executed once per class
in addition to any method-level scripts and statements.
====

[[testcontext-executing-sql-declaratively-script-resources]]
=== Path Resource Semantics

Each path is interpreted as a Spring `Resource`. A plain path (for example,
`"schema.sql"`) is treated as a classpath resource that is relative to the package in
which the test class is defined. A path starting with a slash is treated as an absolute
classpath resource (for example, `"/org/example/schema.sql"`). A path that references a
URL (for example, a path prefixed with `classpath:`, `file:`, `http:`) is loaded by using
the specified resource protocol.

As of Spring Framework 6.2, paths may contain property placeholders (`${...}`) that will
be replaced by properties stored in the `Environment` of the test's `ApplicationContext`.

The following example shows how to use `@Sql` at the class level and at the method level
within a JUnit Jupiter based integration test class:

[tabs]
======
Java::
+
[source,java,indent=0,subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
	@SpringJUnitConfig
	@Sql("/test-schema.sql")
	class DatabaseTests {

		@Test
		void emptySchemaTest() {
			// run code that uses the test schema without any test data
		}

		@Test
		@Sql({"/test-schema.sql", "/test-user-data.sql"})
		void userTest() {
			// run code that uses the test schema and test data
		}
	}
----

Kotlin::
+
[source,kotlin,indent=0,subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
	@SpringJUnitConfig
	@Sql("/test-schema.sql")
	class DatabaseTests {

		@Test
		fun emptySchemaTest() {
			// run code that uses the test schema without any test data
		}

		@Test
		@Sql("/test-schema.sql", "/test-user-data.sql")
		fun userTest() {
			// run code that uses the test schema and test data
		}
	}
----
======

[[testcontext-executing-sql-declaratively-script-detection]]
=== Default Script Detection

If no SQL scripts or statements are specified, an attempt is made to detect a `default`
script, depending on where `@Sql` is declared. If a default cannot be detected, an
`IllegalStateException` is thrown.

* Class-level declaration: If the annotated test class is `com.example.MyTest`, the
  corresponding default script is `classpath:com/example/MyTest.sql`.
* Method-level declaration: If the annotated test method is named `testMethod()` and is
  defined in the class `com.example.MyTest`, the corresponding default script is
  `classpath:com/example/MyTest.testMethod.sql`.

[[testcontext-executing-sql-declaratively-logging]]
=== Logging SQL Scripts and Statements

If you want to see which SQL scripts are being executed, set the
`org.springframework.test.context.jdbc` logging category to `DEBUG`.

If you want to see which SQL statements are being executed, set the
`org.springframework.jdbc.datasource.init` logging category to `DEBUG`.

[[testcontext-executing-sql-declaratively-multiple-annotations]]
=== Declaring Multiple `@Sql` Sets

If you need to configure multiple sets of SQL scripts for a given test class or test
method but with different syntax configuration, different error handling rules, or
different execution phases per set, you can declare multiple instances of `@Sql`. You can
either use `@Sql` as a repeatable annotation, or you can use the `@SqlGroup` annotation
as an explicit container for declaring multiple instances of `@Sql`.

The following example shows how to use `@Sql` as a repeatable annotation:

[tabs]
======
Java::
+
[source,java,indent=0,subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
	@Test
	@Sql(scripts = "/test-schema.sql", config = @SqlConfig(commentPrefix = "`"))
	@Sql("/test-user-data.sql")
	void userTest() {
		// run code that uses the test schema and test data
	}
----

Kotlin::
+
[source,kotlin,indent=0,subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
	@Test
	@Sql("/test-schema.sql", config = SqlConfig(commentPrefix = "`"))
	@Sql("/test-user-data.sql")
	fun userTest() {
		// run code that uses the test schema and test data
	}
----
======

In the scenario presented in the preceding example, the `test-schema.sql` script uses a
different syntax for single-line comments.

The following example is identical to the preceding example, except that the `@Sql`
declarations are grouped together within `@SqlGroup`. The use of `@SqlGroup` is optional,
but you may need to use `@SqlGroup` for compatibility with other JVM languages.

[tabs]
======
Java::
+
[source,java,indent=0,subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
	@Test
	@SqlGroup({
		@Sql(scripts = "/test-schema.sql", config = @SqlConfig(commentPrefix = "`")),
		@Sql("/test-user-data.sql")
	})
	void userTest() {
		// run code that uses the test schema and test data
	}
----

Kotlin::
+
[source,kotlin,indent=0,subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
	@Test
	@SqlGroup(
		Sql("/test-schema.sql", config = SqlConfig(commentPrefix = "`")),
		Sql("/test-user-data.sql")
	)
	fun userTest() {
		// Run code that uses the test schema and test data
	}
----
======

[[testcontext-executing-sql-declaratively-script-execution-phases]]
=== Script Execution Phases

By default, SQL scripts are run before the corresponding test method. However, if you
need to run a particular set of scripts after the test method (for example, to clean up
database state), you can set the `executionPhase` attribute in `@Sql` to
`AFTER_TEST_METHOD`, as the following example shows:

[tabs]
======
Java::
+
[source,java,indent=0,subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
	@Test
	@Sql(
		scripts = "create-test-data.sql",
		config = @SqlConfig(transactionMode = ISOLATED)
	)
	@Sql(
		scripts = "delete-test-data.sql",
		config = @SqlConfig(transactionMode = ISOLATED),
		executionPhase = AFTER_TEST_METHOD
	)
	void userTest() {
		// run code that needs the test data to be committed
		// to the database outside of the test's transaction
	}
----

Kotlin::
+
[source,kotlin,indent=0,subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
	@Test
	@Sql("create-test-data.sql",
		config = SqlConfig(transactionMode = ISOLATED))
	@Sql("delete-test-data.sql",
		config = SqlConfig(transactionMode = ISOLATED),
		executionPhase = AFTER_TEST_METHOD)
	fun userTest() {
		// run code that needs the test data to be committed
		// to the database outside of the test's transaction
	}
----
======

NOTE: `ISOLATED` and `AFTER_TEST_METHOD` are statically imported from
`Sql.TransactionMode` and `Sql.ExecutionPhase`, respectively.

As of Spring Framework 6.1, it is possible to run a particular set of scripts before or
after the test class by setting the `executionPhase` attribute in a class-level `@Sql`
declaration to `BEFORE_TEST_CLASS` or `AFTER_TEST_CLASS`, as the following example shows:

[tabs]
======
Java::
+
[source,java,indent=0,subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
	@SpringJUnitConfig
	@Sql(scripts = "/test-schema.sql", executionPhase = BEFORE_TEST_CLASS)
	class DatabaseTests {

		@Test
		void emptySchemaTest() {
			// run code that uses the test schema without any test data
		}

		@Test
		@Sql("/test-user-data.sql")
		void userTest() {
			// run code that uses the test schema and test data
		}
	}
----

Kotlin::
+
[source,kotlin,indent=0,subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
	@SpringJUnitConfig
	@Sql("/test-schema.sql", executionPhase = BEFORE_TEST_CLASS)
	class DatabaseTests {

		@Test
		fun emptySchemaTest() {
			// run code that uses the test schema without any test data
		}

		@Test
		@Sql("/test-user-data.sql")
		fun userTest() {
			// run code that uses the test schema and test data
		}
	}
----
======

NOTE: `BEFORE_TEST_CLASS` is statically imported from `Sql.ExecutionPhase`.

[[testcontext-executing-sql-declaratively-script-configuration]]
=== Script Configuration with `@SqlConfig`

You can configure script parsing and error handling by using the `@SqlConfig` annotation.
When declared as a class-level annotation on an integration test class, `@SqlConfig`
serves as global configuration for all SQL scripts within the test class hierarchy. When
declared directly by using the `config` attribute of the `@Sql` annotation, `@SqlConfig`
serves as local configuration for the SQL scripts declared within the enclosing `@Sql`
annotation. Every attribute in `@SqlConfig` has an implicit default value, which is
documented in the javadoc of the corresponding attribute. Due to the rules defined for
annotation attributes in the Java Language Specification, it is, unfortunately, not
possible to assign a value of `null` to an annotation attribute. Thus, in order to
support overrides of inherited global configuration, `@SqlConfig` attributes have an
explicit default value of either `""` (for Strings), `{}` (for arrays), or `DEFAULT` (for
enumerations). This approach lets local declarations of `@SqlConfig` selectively override
individual attributes from global declarations of `@SqlConfig` by providing a value other
than `""`, `{}`, or `DEFAULT`. Global `@SqlConfig` attributes are inherited whenever
local `@SqlConfig` attributes do not supply an explicit value other than `""`, `{}`, or
`DEFAULT`. Explicit local configuration, therefore, overrides global configuration.

The configuration options provided by `@Sql` and `@SqlConfig` are equivalent to those
supported by `ScriptUtils` and `ResourceDatabasePopulator` but are a superset of those
provided by the `<jdbc:initialize-database/>` XML namespace element. See the javadoc of
individual attributes in {spring-framework-api}/test/context/jdbc/Sql.html[`@Sql`] and
{spring-framework-api}/test/context/jdbc/SqlConfig.html[`@SqlConfig`] for details.

[[testcontext-executing-sql-declaratively-tx]]
==== Transaction management for `@Sql`

By default, the `SqlScriptsTestExecutionListener` infers the desired transaction
semantics for scripts configured by using `@Sql`. Specifically, SQL scripts are run
without a transaction, within an existing Spring-managed transaction (for example, a
transaction managed by the `TransactionalTestExecutionListener` for a test annotated with
`@Transactional`), or within an isolated transaction, depending on the configured value
of the `transactionMode` attribute in `@SqlConfig` and the presence of a
`PlatformTransactionManager` in the test's `ApplicationContext`. As a bare minimum,
however, a `javax.sql.DataSource` must be present in the test's `ApplicationContext`.

If the algorithms used by `SqlScriptsTestExecutionListener` to detect a `DataSource` and
`PlatformTransactionManager` and infer the transaction semantics do not suit your needs,
you can specify explicit names by setting the `dataSource` and `transactionManager`
attributes of `@SqlConfig`. Furthermore, you can control the transaction propagation
behavior by setting the `transactionMode` attribute of `@SqlConfig` (for example, whether
scripts should be run in an isolated transaction). Although a thorough discussion of all
supported options for transaction management with `@Sql` is beyond the scope of this
reference manual, the javadoc for
{spring-framework-api}/test/context/jdbc/SqlConfig.html[`@SqlConfig`] and
{spring-framework-api}/test/context/jdbc/SqlScriptsTestExecutionListener.html[`SqlScriptsTestExecutionListener`]
provide detailed information, and the following example shows a typical testing scenario
that uses JUnit Jupiter and transactional tests with `@Sql`:

[tabs]
======
Java::
+
[source,java,indent=0,subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
	@SpringJUnitConfig(TestDatabaseConfig.class)
	@Transactional
	class TransactionalSqlScriptsTests {

		final JdbcTemplate jdbcTemplate;

		@Autowired
		TransactionalSqlScriptsTests(DataSource dataSource) {
			this.jdbcTemplate = new JdbcTemplate(dataSource);
		}

		@Test
		@Sql("/test-data.sql")
		void usersTest() {
			// verify state in test database:
			assertNumUsers(2);
			// run code that uses the test data...
		}

		int countRowsInTable(String tableName) {
			return JdbcTestUtils.countRowsInTable(this.jdbcTemplate, tableName);
		}

		void assertNumUsers(int expected) {
			assertEquals(expected, countRowsInTable("user"),
				"Number of rows in the [user] table.");
		}
	}
----

Kotlin::
+
[source,kotlin,indent=0,subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
	@SpringJUnitConfig(TestDatabaseConfig::class)
	@Transactional
	class TransactionalSqlScriptsTests @Autowired constructor(dataSource: DataSource) {

		val jdbcTemplate: JdbcTemplate = JdbcTemplate(dataSource)

		@Test
		@Sql("/test-data.sql")
		fun usersTest() {
			// verify state in test database:
			assertNumUsers(2)
			// run code that uses the test data...
		}

		fun countRowsInTable(tableName: String): Int {
			return JdbcTestUtils.countRowsInTable(jdbcTemplate, tableName)
		}

		fun assertNumUsers(expected: Int) {
			assertEquals(expected, countRowsInTable("user"),
					"Number of rows in the [user] table.")
		}
	}
----
======

Note that there is no need to clean up the database after the `usersTest()` method is
run, since any changes made to the database (either within the test method or within the
`/test-data.sql` script) are automatically rolled back by the
`TransactionalTestExecutionListener` (see xref:testing/testcontext-framework/tx.adoc[transaction management] for
details).

[[testcontext-executing-sql-declaratively-script-merging]]
=== Merging and Overriding Configuration with `@SqlMergeMode`

It is possible to merge method-level `@Sql` declarations with
class-level declarations. For example, this allows you to provide the configuration for a
database schema or some common test data once per test class and then provide additional,
use case specific test data per test method. To enable `@Sql` merging, annotate either
your test class or test method with `@SqlMergeMode(MERGE)`. To disable merging for a
specific test method (or specific test subclass), you can switch back to the default mode
via `@SqlMergeMode(OVERRIDE)`. Consult the xref:testing/annotations/integration-spring/annotation-sqlmergemode.adoc[`@SqlMergeMode` annotation documentation section]
 for examples and further details.


