src/docs/asciidoc/web/web-flux.adoc, before:

[[web-reactive]]
= WebFlux framework

This section provides basic information on the reactive programming
support for Web applications in Spring Framework 5.


[[web-reactive-intro]]
== Introduction


[[web-reactive-programming]]
=== What is Reactive Programming?

In plain terms reactive programming is about non-blocking applications that are asynchronous
and event-driven and require a small number of threads to scale vertically (i.e. within the
JVM) rather than horizontally (i.e. through clustering).

A key aspect of reactive applications is the concept of backpressure which is
a mechanism to ensure producers don't overwhelm consumers. For example in a pipeline
of reactive components extending from the database to the HTTP response when the
HTTP connection is too slow the data repository can also slow down or stop completely
until network capacity frees up.

Reactive programming also leads to a major shift from imperative to declarative async
composition of logic. It is comparable to writing blocking code vs using the
`CompletableFuture` from Java 8 to compose follow-up actions via lambda expressions.

For a longer introduction check the blog series
https://spring.io/blog/2016/06/07/notes-on-reactive-programming-part-i-the-reactive-landscape["Notes on Reactive Programming"]
by Dave Syer.


[[web-reactive-api]]
=== Reactive API and Building Blocks

Spring Framework 5 embraces
https://github.com/reactive-streams/reactive-streams-jvm#reactive-streams[Reactive Streams]
as the contract for communicating backpressure across async components and
libraries. Reactive Streams is a specification created through industry collaboration that
has also been adopted in Java 9 as `java.util.concurrent.Flow`.

The Spring Framework uses https://projectreactor.io/[Reactor] internally for its own
reactive support. Reactor is a Reactive Streams implementation that further extends the
basic Reactive Streams `Publisher` contract with the `Flux` and `Mono` composable API
types to provide declarative operations on data sequences of `0..N` and `0..1`.

The Spring Framework exposes `Flux` and `Mono` in many of its own reactive APIs.
At the application level however, as always, Spring provides choice and fully supports
the use of RxJava. For more on reactive types check the post
https://spring.io/blog/2016/04/19/understanding-reactive-types["Understanding Reactive Types"]
by Sebastien Deleuze.


[[web-reactive-feature-overview]]
== Spring WebFlux Module

Spring Framework 5 includes a new `spring-webflux` module. The module contains support
for reactive HTTP and WebSocket clients as well as for reactive server web applications
including REST, HTML browser, and WebSocket style interactions.

[[web-reactive-server]]
=== Server Side

On the server-side WebFlux supports 2 distinct programming models:

* Annotation-based with `@Controller` and the other annotations supported also with Spring MVC
* Functional, Java 8 lambda style routing and handling

Both programming models are executed on the same reactive foundation that adapts
non-blocking HTTP runtimes to the Reactive Streams API. The diagram
below shows the server-side stack including traditional, Servlet-based
Spring MVC on the left from the `spring-webmvc` module and also the
reactive stack on the right from the `spring-webflux` module.

image::images/webflux-overview.png[width=720]

WebFlux can run on Servlet containers with support for the
Servlet 3.1 Non-Blocking IO API as well as on other async runtimes such as
Netty and Undertow. Each runtime is adapted to a reactive
`ServerHttpRequest` and `ServerHttpResponse` exposing the body of the
request and response as `Flux<DataBuffer>`, rather than
`InputStream` and `OutputStream`, with reactive backpressure.
REST-style JSON and XML serialization and deserialization is supported on top
as a `Flux<Object>`, and so is HTML view rendering and Server-Sent Events.

[[web-reactive-server-annotation]]
==== Annotation-based Programming Model

The same `@Controller` programming model and the same annotations used in Spring MVC
are also supported in WebFlux. The main difference is that the underlying core,
framework contracts -- i.e. `HandlerMapping`, `HandlerAdapter`, are
non-blocking and operate on the reactive `ServerHttpRequest` and `ServerHttpResponse`
rather than on the `HttpServletRequest` and `HttpServletResponse`.
Below is an example with a reactive controller:

[source,java,indent=0]
[subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
@RestController
public class PersonController {

	private final PersonRepository repository;

	public PersonController(PersonRepository repository) {
		this.repository = repository;
	}

	@PostMapping("/person")
	Mono<Void> create(@RequestBody Publisher<Person> personStream) {
		return this.repository.save(personStream).then();
	}

	@GetMapping("/person")
	Flux<Person> list() {
		return this.repository.findAll();
	}

	@GetMapping("/person/{id}")
	Mono<Person> findById(@PathVariable String id) {
		return this.repository.findOne(id);
	}
}
----

[[web-reactive-server-functional]]
==== Functional Programming Model

include::web-flux-functional.adoc[leveloffset=+1]


[[web-reactive-client]]
=== Client Side

WebFlux includes a functional, reactive `WebClient` that offers a fully
non-blocking and reactive alternative to the `RestTemplate`. It exposes network
input and output as a reactive `ClientHttpRequest` and `ClientHttpResponse` where
the body of the request and response is a `Flux<DataBuffer>` rather than an
`InputStream` and `OutputStream`. In addition it supports the same reactive JSON, XML,
and SSE serialization mechanism as on the server side so you can work with typed objects.
Below is an example of using the `WebClient` which requires a `ClientHttpConnector`
implementation to plug in a specific HTTP client such as Reactor Netty:

[source,java,indent=0]
[subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
WebClient client = WebClient.create("http://example.com");

Mono<Account> account = client.get()
		.url("/accounts/{id}", 1L)
		.accept(APPLICATION_JSON)
		.exchange(request)
		.flatMap(response -> response.bodyToMono(Account.class));
----


[NOTE]
====
The `AsyncRestTemplate` also supports non-blocking interactions. The main difference
is it can't support non-blocking streaming, like for example
https://dev.twitter.com/streaming/overview[Twitter one], because fundamentally it's
still based and relies on `InputStream` and `OutputStream`.
====


[[web-reactive-http-body]]
=== Request and Response Body Conversion

The `spring-core` module provides reactive `Encoder` and `Decoder` contracts
that enable the serialization of a `Flux` of bytes to and from typed objects.
The `spring-web` module adds JSON (Jackson) and XML (JAXB) implementations for use in
web applications as well as others for SSE streaming and zero-copy file transfer.

The following Reactive APIs are supported:

* Reactor 3.x is supported out of the box
* RxJava 2.x is supported when `io.reactivex.rxjava2:rxjava` dependency is on the classpath
* RxJava 1.x is supported when both `io.reactivex:rxjava` and `io.reactivex:rxjava-reactive-streams` (https://github.com/ReactiveX/RxJavaReactiveStreams[adapter between RxJava and Reactive Streams]) dependencies are on the classpath

For example the request body can be one of the following way and it will be decoded
automatically in both the annotation and the functional programming models:

* `Account account` -- the account is deserialized without blocking before the controller is invoked.
* `Mono<Account> account` -- the controller can use the `Mono` to declare logic to be executed after the account is deserialized.
* `Single<Account> account` -- same as with `Mono` but using RxJava
* `Flux<Account> accounts` -- input streaming scenario.
* `Observable<Account> accounts` -- input streaming with RxJava.

The response body can be one of the following:

* `Mono<Account>` -- serialize without blocking the given Account when the `Mono` completes.
* `Single<Account>` -- same but using RxJava.
* `Flux<Account>` -- streaming scenario, possibly SSE depending on the requested content type.
* `Observable<Account>` -- same but using RxJava `Observable` type.
* `Flowable<Account>` -- same but using RxJava 2 `Flowable` type.
* `Publisher<Account>` or `Flow.Publisher<Account>` -- any type implementing Reactive Streams `Publisher` is supported.
* `Flux<ServerSentEvent>` -- SSE streaming.
* `Mono<Void>` -- request handling completes when the `Mono` completes.
* `Account` -- serialize without blocking the given Account; implies a synchronous, non-blocking controller method.
* `void` -- specific to the annotation-based programming model, request handling completes
when the method returns; implies a synchronous, non-blocking controller method.

When using stream types like `Flux` or `Observable`, the media type specified in the
request/response or at mapping/routing level is used to determine how the data should be serialized
and flushed. For example a REST endpoint that returns a `Flux<Account>` will be serialized by
default as following:

* `application/json`: a `Flux<Account>` is handled as an asynchronous collection and
  serialized as a JSON array with an explicit flush when the `complete` event is emitted.
* `application/stream+json`: a `Flux<Account>` will be handled as a stream of `Account` elements
  serialized as individual JSON object separated by new lines and explicitly flushed after
  each element. The `WebClient` supports JSON stream decoding so this is a good use case
  for server to server use case.
* `text/event-stream`: a `Flux<Account>` or `Flux<ServerSentEvent<Account>>` will be handled as
  a stream of `Account` or  `ServerSentEvent` elements serialized as individual SSE elements
  using by default JSON for data encoding and explicit flush after each element. This
  is well suited for exposing a stream to browser clients. `WebClient` supports
  reading SSE streams as well.


[[web-reactive-websocket-support]]
=== Reactive WebSocket Support

WebFlux includes reactive WebSocket client and server support.
Both client and server are supported on the Java WebSocket API
(JSR-356), Jetty, Undertow, and Reactor Netty.

On the server side, declare a `WebSocketHandlerAdapter` and then simply add
mappings to `WebSocketHandler`-based endpoints:

[source,java,indent=0]
[subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
@Bean
public HandlerMapping webSocketMapping() {
	Map<String, WebSocketHandler> map = new HashMap<>();
	map.put("/foo", new FooWebSocketHandler());
	map.put("/bar", new BarWebSocketHandler());

	SimpleUrlHandlerMapping mapping = new SimpleUrlHandlerMapping();
	mapping.setUrlMap(map);
	return mapping;
}

@Bean
public WebSocketHandlerAdapter handlerAdapter() {
	return new WebSocketHandlerAdapter();
}
----

On the client side create a `WebSocketClient` for one of the supported libraries
listed above:

[source,java,indent=0]
[subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
WebSocketClient client = new ReactorNettyWebSocketClient();
client.execute("ws://localhost:8080/echo"), session -> {... }).blockMillis(5000);
----

[[web-reactive-tests]]
=== Testing

The `spring-test` module includes a `WebTestClient` that can be used to test
WebFlux server endpoints with or without a running server.

Tests without a running server are comparable to `MockMvc` from Spring MVC
where mock request and response are used instead of connecting over the network
using a socket. The `WebTestClient` however can also perform tests against a
running server.

For more see
https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-framework/tree/master/spring-test/src/test/java/org/springframework/test/web/reactive/server/samples[sample tests]
in the framework.



[[web-reactive-getting-started]]
== Getting Started


[[web-reactive-getting-started-boot]]
=== Spring Boot Starter

The
https://github.com/bclozel/spring-boot-web-reactive#spring-boot-web-reactive-starter[Spring Boot Web Reactive starter]
available via http://start.spring.io is the fastest way to get started.
It does all that's necessary so you to start writing `@Controller` classes
just like with Spring MVC. Simply go to http://start.spring.io, choose
version 2.0.0.BUILD-SNAPSHOT, and type reactive in the dependencies box.
By default the starter runs with Tomcat but the dependencies can be changed as usual with Spring Boot to switch to a different runtime.
See the
https://github.com/bclozel/spring-boot-web-reactive#spring-boot-web-reactive-starter[starter]
page for more details and instruction

This starter also supports the functional web API and will detect automatically `RouterFunction`
beans. Your Spring Boot WebFlux application should use the `RouterFunction` *or* the
`RequestMapping` approach, it is currently not possible to mix them in the same application.

[[web-reactive-getting-started-manual]]
=== Manual Bootstrapping

This section outlines the steps to get up and running manually.

For dependencies start with `spring-webflux` and `spring-context`.
Then add `jackson-databind` and `io.netty:netty-buffer`
(temporarily see https://jira.spring.io/browse/SPR-14528[SPR-14528]) for JSON support.
Lastly add the dependencies for one of the supported runtimes:

* Tomcat -- `org.apache.tomcat.embed:tomcat-embed-core`
* Jetty -- `org.eclipse.jetty:jetty-server` and `org.eclipse.jetty:jetty-servlet`
* Reactor Netty -- `io.projectreactor.ipc:reactor-netty`
* Undertow -- `io.undertow:undertow-core`

For the **annotation-based programming model** bootstrap with:
[source,java,indent=0]
[subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
ApplicationContext context = new AnnotationConfigApplicationContext(DelegatingWebFluxConfiguration.class);  // (1)
HttpHandler handler = DispatcherHandler.toHttpHandler(context);  // (2)
----

The above loads default Spring Web framework configuration (1), then creates a
`DispatcherHandler`, the main class driving request processing (2), and adapts
it to `HttpHandler` -- the lowest level Spring abstraction for reactive HTTP request handling.

For the **functional programming model** bootstrap as follows:
[source,java,indent=0]
[subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
ApplicationContext context = new AnnotationConfigApplicationContext(); // (1)
context.registerBean(FooBean.class, () -> new FooBeanImpl()); // (2)
context.registerBean(BarBean.class); // (3)

HttpHandler handler = WebHttpHandlerBuilder
		.webHandler(RouterFunctions.toHttpHandler(...))
		.applicationContext(context)
		.build(); // (4)
----

The above creates an `AnnotationConfigApplicationContext` instance (1) that can take advantage
of the new functional bean registration API (2) to register beans using a Java 8 `Supplier`
or just by specifying its class (3). The `HttpHandler` is created using `WebHttpHandlerBuilder` (4).

The `HttpHandler` can then be installed in one of the supported runtimes:

[source,java,indent=0]
[subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
// Tomcat and Jetty (also see notes below)
HttpServlet servlet = new ServletHttpHandlerAdapter(handler);
...

// Reactor Netty
ReactorHttpHandlerAdapter adapter = new ReactorHttpHandlerAdapter(handler);
HttpServer.create(host, port).newHandler(adapter).block();

// Undertow
UndertowHttpHandlerAdapter adapter = new UndertowHttpHandlerAdapter(handler);
Undertow server = Undertow.builder().addHttpListener(port, host).setHandler(adapter).build();
server.start();
----

[NOTE]
====
For Servlet containers especially with WAR deployment you can use the
`AbstractAnnotationConfigDispatcherHandlerInitializer` which as a
`WebApplicationInitializer` and is auto-detected by Servlet containers.
It takes care of registering the `ServletHttpHandlerAdapter` as shown above.
You will need to implement one abstract method in order to point to your
Spring configuration.
====

[[web-reactive-getting-started-examples]]
=== Examples

You will find code examples useful to build reactive Web application in the following projects:

* https://github.com/bclozel/spring-boot-web-reactive[Spring Boot Web Reactive Starter]: sources of the reactive starter available at http://start.spring.io
* https://github.com/poutsma/web-function-sample[Functional programming model sample]
* https://github.com/sdeleuze/spring-reactive-playground[Spring Reactive Playground]: playground for most Spring Web reactive features
* https://github.com/reactor/projectreactor.io/tree/spring-functional[Reactor website]: the `spring-functional` branch is a Spring 5 functional, Java 8 lambda-style application
* https://github.com/bclozel/spring-reactive-university[Spring Reactive University session]: live-coded project from https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cj4foJzPF80[this Devoxx BE 2106 university talk]
* https://github.com/thymeleaf/thymeleafsandbox-biglist-reactive[Reactive Thymeleaf Sandbox]
* https://github.com/mix-it/mixit/[Mix-it 2017 website]: Kotlin + Reactive + Functional web and bean registration API application
* https://github.com/simonbasle/reactor-by-example[Reactor by example]: code snippets coming from this https://www.infoq.com/articles/reactor-by-example[InfoQ article]
* https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-framework/tree/master/spring-webflux/src/test/java/org/springframework/web/reactive/result/method/annotation[Spring integration tests]: various features tested with Reactor https://projectreactor.io/docs/test/release/api/index.html?reactor/test/StepVerifier.html[`StepVerifier`]

Commit message:

Do not mention deprecated Reactive Boot starter
There's an officially supported Spring WebFlux starter now in Spring
Boot, so all mentions to the experimental starter are now removed.

src/docs/asciidoc/web/web-flux.adoc, after:

[[web-reactive]]
= WebFlux framework

This section provides basic information on the reactive programming
support for Web applications in Spring Framework 5.


[[web-reactive-intro]]
== Introduction


[[web-reactive-programming]]
=== What is Reactive Programming?

In plain terms reactive programming is about non-blocking applications that are asynchronous
and event-driven and require a small number of threads to scale vertically (i.e. within the
JVM) rather than horizontally (i.e. through clustering).

A key aspect of reactive applications is the concept of backpressure which is
a mechanism to ensure producers don't overwhelm consumers. For example in a pipeline
of reactive components extending from the database to the HTTP response when the
HTTP connection is too slow the data repository can also slow down or stop completely
until network capacity frees up.

Reactive programming also leads to a major shift from imperative to declarative async
composition of logic. It is comparable to writing blocking code vs using the
`CompletableFuture` from Java 8 to compose follow-up actions via lambda expressions.

For a longer introduction check the blog series
https://spring.io/blog/2016/06/07/notes-on-reactive-programming-part-i-the-reactive-landscape["Notes on Reactive Programming"]
by Dave Syer.


[[web-reactive-api]]
=== Reactive API and Building Blocks

Spring Framework 5 embraces
https://github.com/reactive-streams/reactive-streams-jvm#reactive-streams[Reactive Streams]
as the contract for communicating backpressure across async components and
libraries. Reactive Streams is a specification created through industry collaboration that
has also been adopted in Java 9 as `java.util.concurrent.Flow`.

The Spring Framework uses https://projectreactor.io/[Reactor] internally for its own
reactive support. Reactor is a Reactive Streams implementation that further extends the
basic Reactive Streams `Publisher` contract with the `Flux` and `Mono` composable API
types to provide declarative operations on data sequences of `0..N` and `0..1`.

The Spring Framework exposes `Flux` and `Mono` in many of its own reactive APIs.
At the application level however, as always, Spring provides choice and fully supports
the use of RxJava. For more on reactive types check the post
https://spring.io/blog/2016/04/19/understanding-reactive-types["Understanding Reactive Types"]
by Sebastien Deleuze.


[[web-reactive-feature-overview]]
== Spring WebFlux Module

Spring Framework 5 includes a new `spring-webflux` module. The module contains support
for reactive HTTP and WebSocket clients as well as for reactive server web applications
including REST, HTML browser, and WebSocket style interactions.

[[web-reactive-server]]
=== Server Side

On the server-side WebFlux supports 2 distinct programming models:

* Annotation-based with `@Controller` and the other annotations supported also with Spring MVC
* Functional, Java 8 lambda style routing and handling

Both programming models are executed on the same reactive foundation that adapts
non-blocking HTTP runtimes to the Reactive Streams API. The diagram
below shows the server-side stack including traditional, Servlet-based
Spring MVC on the left from the `spring-webmvc` module and also the
reactive stack on the right from the `spring-webflux` module.

image::images/webflux-overview.png[width=720]

WebFlux can run on Servlet containers with support for the
Servlet 3.1 Non-Blocking IO API as well as on other async runtimes such as
Netty and Undertow. Each runtime is adapted to a reactive
`ServerHttpRequest` and `ServerHttpResponse` exposing the body of the
request and response as `Flux<DataBuffer>`, rather than
`InputStream` and `OutputStream`, with reactive backpressure.
REST-style JSON and XML serialization and deserialization is supported on top
as a `Flux<Object>`, and so is HTML view rendering and Server-Sent Events.

[[web-reactive-server-annotation]]
==== Annotation-based Programming Model

The same `@Controller` programming model and the same annotations used in Spring MVC
are also supported in WebFlux. The main difference is that the underlying core,
framework contracts -- i.e. `HandlerMapping`, `HandlerAdapter`, are
non-blocking and operate on the reactive `ServerHttpRequest` and `ServerHttpResponse`
rather than on the `HttpServletRequest` and `HttpServletResponse`.
Below is an example with a reactive controller:

[source,java,indent=0]
[subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
@RestController
public class PersonController {

	private final PersonRepository repository;

	public PersonController(PersonRepository repository) {
		this.repository = repository;
	}

	@PostMapping("/person")
	Mono<Void> create(@RequestBody Publisher<Person> personStream) {
		return this.repository.save(personStream).then();
	}

	@GetMapping("/person")
	Flux<Person> list() {
		return this.repository.findAll();
	}

	@GetMapping("/person/{id}")
	Mono<Person> findById(@PathVariable String id) {
		return this.repository.findOne(id);
	}
}
----

[[web-reactive-server-functional]]
==== Functional Programming Model

include::web-flux-functional.adoc[leveloffset=+1]


[[web-reactive-client]]
=== Client Side

WebFlux includes a functional, reactive `WebClient` that offers a fully
non-blocking and reactive alternative to the `RestTemplate`. It exposes network
input and output as a reactive `ClientHttpRequest` and `ClientHttpResponse` where
the body of the request and response is a `Flux<DataBuffer>` rather than an
`InputStream` and `OutputStream`. In addition it supports the same reactive JSON, XML,
and SSE serialization mechanism as on the server side so you can work with typed objects.
Below is an example of using the `WebClient` which requires a `ClientHttpConnector`
implementation to plug in a specific HTTP client such as Reactor Netty:

[source,java,indent=0]
[subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
WebClient client = WebClient.create("http://example.com");

Mono<Account> account = client.get()
		.url("/accounts/{id}", 1L)
		.accept(APPLICATION_JSON)
		.exchange(request)
		.flatMap(response -> response.bodyToMono(Account.class));
----


[NOTE]
====
The `AsyncRestTemplate` also supports non-blocking interactions. The main difference
is it can't support non-blocking streaming, like for example
https://dev.twitter.com/streaming/overview[Twitter one], because fundamentally it's
still based and relies on `InputStream` and `OutputStream`.
====


[[web-reactive-http-body]]
=== Request and Response Body Conversion

The `spring-core` module provides reactive `Encoder` and `Decoder` contracts
that enable the serialization of a `Flux` of bytes to and from typed objects.
The `spring-web` module adds JSON (Jackson) and XML (JAXB) implementations for use in
web applications as well as others for SSE streaming and zero-copy file transfer.

The following Reactive APIs are supported:

* Reactor 3.x is supported out of the box
* RxJava 2.x is supported when `io.reactivex.rxjava2:rxjava` dependency is on the classpath
* RxJava 1.x is supported when both `io.reactivex:rxjava` and `io.reactivex:rxjava-reactive-streams` (https://github.com/ReactiveX/RxJavaReactiveStreams[adapter between RxJava and Reactive Streams]) dependencies are on the classpath

For example the request body can be one of the following way and it will be decoded
automatically in both the annotation and the functional programming models:

* `Account account` -- the account is deserialized without blocking before the controller is invoked.
* `Mono<Account> account` -- the controller can use the `Mono` to declare logic to be executed after the account is deserialized.
* `Single<Account> account` -- same as with `Mono` but using RxJava
* `Flux<Account> accounts` -- input streaming scenario.
* `Observable<Account> accounts` -- input streaming with RxJava.

The response body can be one of the following:

* `Mono<Account>` -- serialize without blocking the given Account when the `Mono` completes.
* `Single<Account>` -- same but using RxJava.
* `Flux<Account>` -- streaming scenario, possibly SSE depending on the requested content type.
* `Observable<Account>` -- same but using RxJava `Observable` type.
* `Flowable<Account>` -- same but using RxJava 2 `Flowable` type.
* `Publisher<Account>` or `Flow.Publisher<Account>` -- any type implementing Reactive Streams `Publisher` is supported.
* `Flux<ServerSentEvent>` -- SSE streaming.
* `Mono<Void>` -- request handling completes when the `Mono` completes.
* `Account` -- serialize without blocking the given Account; implies a synchronous, non-blocking controller method.
* `void` -- specific to the annotation-based programming model, request handling completes
when the method returns; implies a synchronous, non-blocking controller method.

When using stream types like `Flux` or `Observable`, the media type specified in the
request/response or at mapping/routing level is used to determine how the data should be serialized
and flushed. For example a REST endpoint that returns a `Flux<Account>` will be serialized by
default as following:

* `application/json`: a `Flux<Account>` is handled as an asynchronous collection and
  serialized as a JSON array with an explicit flush when the `complete` event is emitted.
* `application/stream+json`: a `Flux<Account>` will be handled as a stream of `Account` elements
  serialized as individual JSON object separated by new lines and explicitly flushed after
  each element. The `WebClient` supports JSON stream decoding so this is a good use case
  for server to server use case.
* `text/event-stream`: a `Flux<Account>` or `Flux<ServerSentEvent<Account>>` will be handled as
  a stream of `Account` or  `ServerSentEvent` elements serialized as individual SSE elements
  using by default JSON for data encoding and explicit flush after each element. This
  is well suited for exposing a stream to browser clients. `WebClient` supports
  reading SSE streams as well.


[[web-reactive-websocket-support]]
=== Reactive WebSocket Support

WebFlux includes reactive WebSocket client and server support.
Both client and server are supported on the Java WebSocket API
(JSR-356), Jetty, Undertow, and Reactor Netty.

On the server side, declare a `WebSocketHandlerAdapter` and then simply add
mappings to `WebSocketHandler`-based endpoints:

[source,java,indent=0]
[subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
@Bean
public HandlerMapping webSocketMapping() {
	Map<String, WebSocketHandler> map = new HashMap<>();
	map.put("/foo", new FooWebSocketHandler());
	map.put("/bar", new BarWebSocketHandler());

	SimpleUrlHandlerMapping mapping = new SimpleUrlHandlerMapping();
	mapping.setUrlMap(map);
	return mapping;
}

@Bean
public WebSocketHandlerAdapter handlerAdapter() {
	return new WebSocketHandlerAdapter();
}
----

On the client side create a `WebSocketClient` for one of the supported libraries
listed above:

[source,java,indent=0]
[subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
WebSocketClient client = new ReactorNettyWebSocketClient();
client.execute("ws://localhost:8080/echo"), session -> {... }).blockMillis(5000);
----

[[web-reactive-tests]]
=== Testing

The `spring-test` module includes a `WebTestClient` that can be used to test
WebFlux server endpoints with or without a running server.

Tests without a running server are comparable to `MockMvc` from Spring MVC
where mock request and response are used instead of connecting over the network
using a socket. The `WebTestClient` however can also perform tests against a
running server.

For more see
https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-framework/tree/master/spring-test/src/test/java/org/springframework/test/web/reactive/server/samples[sample tests]
in the framework.



[[web-reactive-getting-started]]
== Getting Started


[[web-reactive-getting-started-boot]]
=== Spring Boot Starter

The
Spring Boot WebFlux starter available via http://start.spring.io is the fastest way to get started.
It does all that's necessary so you to start writing `@Controller` classes
just like with Spring MVC. Simply go to http://start.spring.io, choose
version 2.0.0.BUILD-SNAPSHOT, and type reactive in the dependencies box.
By default the starter runs with Reactor Netty but the dependencies can be changed as usual
with Spring Boot to switch to a different runtime.
See the Spring Boot reference documentation page for more details and instruction.

This starter also supports the functional web API and will detect automatically `RouterFunction`
beans. Your Spring Boot WebFlux application should use the `RouterFunction` *or* the
`RequestMapping` approach, it is not possible to mix them in the same application.

[[web-reactive-getting-started-manual]]
=== Manual Bootstrapping

This section outlines the steps to get up and running manually.

For dependencies start with `spring-webflux` and `spring-context`.
Then add `jackson-databind` and `io.netty:netty-buffer`
(temporarily see https://jira.spring.io/browse/SPR-14528[SPR-14528]) for JSON support.
Lastly add the dependencies for one of the supported runtimes:

* Tomcat -- `org.apache.tomcat.embed:tomcat-embed-core`
* Jetty -- `org.eclipse.jetty:jetty-server` and `org.eclipse.jetty:jetty-servlet`
* Reactor Netty -- `io.projectreactor.ipc:reactor-netty`
* Undertow -- `io.undertow:undertow-core`

For the **annotation-based programming model** bootstrap with:
[source,java,indent=0]
[subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
ApplicationContext context = new AnnotationConfigApplicationContext(DelegatingWebFluxConfiguration.class);  // (1)
HttpHandler handler = DispatcherHandler.toHttpHandler(context);  // (2)
----

The above loads default Spring Web framework configuration (1), then creates a
`DispatcherHandler`, the main class driving request processing (2), and adapts
it to `HttpHandler` -- the lowest level Spring abstraction for reactive HTTP request handling.

For the **functional programming model** bootstrap as follows:
[source,java,indent=0]
[subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
ApplicationContext context = new AnnotationConfigApplicationContext(); // (1)
context.registerBean(FooBean.class, () -> new FooBeanImpl()); // (2)
context.registerBean(BarBean.class); // (3)

HttpHandler handler = WebHttpHandlerBuilder
		.webHandler(RouterFunctions.toHttpHandler(...))
		.applicationContext(context)
		.build(); // (4)
----

The above creates an `AnnotationConfigApplicationContext` instance (1) that can take advantage
of the new functional bean registration API (2) to register beans using a Java 8 `Supplier`
or just by specifying its class (3). The `HttpHandler` is created using `WebHttpHandlerBuilder` (4).

The `HttpHandler` can then be installed in one of the supported runtimes:

[source,java,indent=0]
[subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
// Tomcat and Jetty (also see notes below)
HttpServlet servlet = new ServletHttpHandlerAdapter(handler);
...

// Reactor Netty
ReactorHttpHandlerAdapter adapter = new ReactorHttpHandlerAdapter(handler);
HttpServer.create(host, port).newHandler(adapter).block();

// Undertow
UndertowHttpHandlerAdapter adapter = new UndertowHttpHandlerAdapter(handler);
Undertow server = Undertow.builder().addHttpListener(port, host).setHandler(adapter).build();
server.start();
----

[NOTE]
====
For Servlet containers especially with WAR deployment you can use the
`AbstractAnnotationConfigDispatcherHandlerInitializer` which as a
`WebApplicationInitializer` and is auto-detected by Servlet containers.
It takes care of registering the `ServletHttpHandlerAdapter` as shown above.
You will need to implement one abstract method in order to point to your
Spring configuration.
====

[[web-reactive-getting-started-examples]]
=== Examples

You will find code examples useful to build reactive Web application in the following projects:

* https://github.com/poutsma/web-function-sample[Functional programming model sample]
* https://github.com/sdeleuze/spring-reactive-playground[Spring Reactive Playground]: playground for most Spring Web reactive features
* https://github.com/reactor/projectreactor.io/tree/spring-functional[Reactor website]: the `spring-functional` branch is a Spring 5 functional, Java 8 lambda-style application
* https://github.com/bclozel/spring-reactive-university[Spring Reactive University session]: live-coded project from https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cj4foJzPF80[this Devoxx BE 2106 university talk]
* https://github.com/thymeleaf/thymeleafsandbox-biglist-reactive[Reactive Thymeleaf Sandbox]
* https://github.com/mix-it/mixit/[Mix-it 2017 website]: Kotlin + Reactive + Functional web and bean registration API application
* https://github.com/simonbasle/reactor-by-example[Reactor by example]: code snippets coming from this https://www.infoq.com/articles/reactor-by-example[InfoQ article]
* https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-framework/tree/master/spring-webflux/src/test/java/org/springframework/web/reactive/result/method/annotation[Spring integration tests]: various features tested with Reactor https://projectreactor.io/docs/test/release/api/index.html?reactor/test/StepVerifier.html[`StepVerifier`]
